# FaceBiometrics
Today, countries other than Ethiopia implement different biometrics methods to identify criminals. Disposing fingerprints and issuing police clearance certificates are carried out by governmental bureaus specifically, in Ethiopia, issued by the Federal Police Crime Investigation Bureau. However, tasks’ labor intensiveness, too much processing time, and identifying criminals accurately are the headache and prominent problems in the bureau. To improve the police clearance certificate process and to overcome these challenges in the bureau, a prototype, face biometrics criminal identification technique, is developed. Eigenface recognition is used to develop the prototype along with principal component analysis and support vector machine to take advantageous over other techniques; and the experimental result shows that Eigenface recognition has limitations in lighting conditions, and this needs a special room where the light becomes consistent. However, again the result shows 90% accuracy in recognizing samples during the experiment of the thesis. Furthermore, the developed prototype is one step ahead in designing the recognition to be web based, and the prototype can be accessed in the internet in such a way that users can use it in graphical user interface mode. Supporting the work to be done in the bureau by using face biometrics technique is advisable to overcome the prominent problems faced so far in the bureau so that tasks will be accomplished within a minute and as a result customers become satisfy for the service. Police clearance certificate is required to make sure that a person has never partaken in any criminal activity for employment and/or to meet the requirements of the immigration rules for the visa application.  
